docs: Add docs for plugins structure (#5)
tiagoalvesdulce/politeiagui: plugins-structure/README.md

# PoliteiaGUI - Plugins Structure

A Guest User Interface configurable structure for creating multiple applications

> using Politeia's [[1]](#1) plugin architecture.

Reviewer: You are referencing a book that's behind a paywall. That's not good because the reader doesn't have free access to the resource.

## Index

0. [Requirements](#requirements)
1. [Introduction](#introduction)
2. [GUI Composable Plugin Architecture](#gui-composable-plugin-architecture)
3. [Application Shell](#application-shell)
4. [Core](#core)

## Requirements

The following guide will assume you are familiar with the tools listed below. We
recommend you to take some time to study them before proceeding.

- [JavaScript](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript)
- [Micro-Frontends](https://micro-frontends.org/)
- [Lerna](https://lerna.js.org/)
- [Yarn Workspaces](https://yarnpkg.com/features/workspaces)
- [Politeia](https://github.com/decred/politeia)

> - [Redux Toolkit](https://redux-toolkit.js.org/)

Reviewer: I would add redux to this list.

- [Window History](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Window/history)

## Introduction

Politeia is the underlying platform that provides a versioned, timestamped data

> store [[2]](#2), which can be used for creating new applications on top of it.

Reviewer: I don't think you have to link the politeia dev proposal here since you are doing it right below already.

> The original motivations behind Politeia were to create a platform that would
> allow the Decred stakeholders to manage the Decred treasury. This platform
> would let individuals and teams submit proposals (i.e. requests for funding
> from the treasury) and would facilitate the Decred stakeholders voting on
> whether to fund the proposal or reject it. The data would be stored off-chain,
> but would be episodically timestamped onto the Decred blockchain" - _Politeia:
> Pi 2021 Q3 (Proposal System)_ [[2]](#2).

However, the stored data could be any set of data, not exclusively proposals,
which could also be used as a more generic storage, such as contractors
payments management, proposals discussions, etc.

The current design would allow developers to create new plugins to interact,
extend and manage the Record functionality. Therefore, we can use Politeia
[[1]](#1) architecture to create more applications, such as
[Decred's Proposal system (Pi)](https://proposals.decred.org) and
[Decred's Contractor Management System (CMS)](https://cms.decred.org/)

> _(CMS not implemented on the new architecture yet)_.

Reviewer: I think these paragraphs doesn't add much to the text itself. I would rephrase them to something like:

`A lot of applications can benefit from this design, that's why we decided to create a composable plugin architecture. Developers are now able to create plugins to interact, extend and manage the records stored and create awesome applications with it.`

PoliteiaGUI is the Guest User Interface side of Politeia, which stands for the
same principles of a **plugin-composable architecture**. It is responsible for
displaying the multiple stored Records on a user-friendly interface, helping
people who aren't familiar with programming and CLI management also interact
and use the functionalities provided by the regarded system.

The architecture consists in a composition of one or more plugins that extend
the Core functionalities. For example, plugins can enhance Records by providing
extra information, data, statuses, etc. using its own isolated design. This will
provide a reusable structure for multiple applications, which will provide a
better code maintainance and scalability.

On the Frontend side, it means we can provide different UXs depending on the
plugins combinations. We can integrate multiple plugins for customizing some
app, and still not trigger collateral effects on other plugins.

## GUI Composable Plugin Architecture

> The GUI architecture is a mono-repository structure, composed by

Reviewer: I don't think we could define our structure as micro-frontends. We use a lot of the same concepts but micro-frontends have independent deploy pipelines and micro-apps are combined on run-time. I'd rather we don't call our `plugins` micro-frontends and just stick with plugins.

[micro-frontends](https://micro-frontends.org/) [[3]](#3), managed by
[Lerna](https://lerna.js.org/) and
[Yarn Workspaces](https://yarnpkg.com/features/workspaces), containing two
different types of workspaces: _Apps_ and _Packages_.

- Apps: workspace for **application shells**. It's used for micro-frontends
  integration, in our case, plugins and core, into one user application.
- Packages: workspace for plugins. Each **plugin** has its own isolated config,
  and can compose the application shell by extending the **core** package and
  adding new features, new routes, and also a custom UI.

The following diagram displays an overview of the regarded plugin architecture
for the proposals (Politeia) application:

<p align="center">

>   <img src="../docs/assets/ps-overview-politeia.svg" />

Reviewer: I think here you should include the `Records` plugin.

</p>

> Politeia is the application-shell. Pi, Ticketvote, Comments are plugins that

Reviewer: I don't think we would have a plugin called `Pi`, shouldn't it be `Records` instead? All filenames and configurations would be passed down by the `Politeia` application-shell.

extend the core Record package.

> The User layer is currently under development and you can follow its progress
> on [(decred/politeia#1479) politeiaww: Add user

> > plugins](https://github.com/decred/politeia/issues/1479).

Reviewer: I don't think we have to mention the under development stage of the user layer because the pgui plugin architecture will be merge only after its completion.

## Application Shell

The application shell is the bridge between the application user and the
plugins. It implements UX-oriented features, and specific setup for some regular
app. In the example displayed above, Politeia is responsible for integrating the
multiple plugins, by adding wrappers around the plugins and core tools, and
providing a custom user interface.

The following diagram illustrates the Proposal Details page on the Politeia app:

<p align="center">

>   <img src="../docs/assets/ps-app-shell-politeia.svg" />

Reviewer: 👍 (this screenshot could be improved tho)

Author: Nice, will do!

</p>

Politeia is the proposals system, and, in this case, proposals are Records that
include proposal metadata files. Each proposal also has its own comments tree,
therefore, it can combine Records and Comments. Also, users can check voting
details for proposals due to the inclusion of the Ticketvote plugin, update the
billing status and submit author updates for approved and active proposals

> adding the Pi plugin.

Reviewer: This paragraph is a little confusing.

Notice that the Icon, the dark-mode toggle, "Go Back" link, the page layout
(components order, screen display) are controlled by the application shell,
and, as mentioned before, are configured focusing on the UX.

> We can also create new applications with different combinations of plugins. One
> example could be CMS, which could use invoices as the application records, also
> implement comments for each invoice, use custom contractor management tools with
> an hypothetical CMS plugin, and other stuff.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We could also create applications with different combinations of plugins. One good example is the Contractor Management System (CMS). CMS could use invoices as application records, also implement comments for each invoice and create new plugins to add custom functionality.
```
